When I was changing the name of these bones I realized I could tell that the mirror didn't exactly work
real well with the roll on these.
So I may go back to median point for our pivot point and let's go to normal transform orientation and
you can see that the role is a bit off for these.
So we should probably fix that.
It looks like the hand bone is OK.
The lower arm and the upper arm all seem to be fine.
So let's just deal with the fingers before we do anything else.
I'll tumble around here and let's just use this roll field again and turn the x axis so it's aligned
with the main axis of rotation for our fingers and let's get this one here and we go and then I'll tumble
down around here and let's do this one as well you're roll this around
and this
and this one actually looks pretty good.
Let's go with that.
And we go.
Okay.
So I think that helps.
Now we should do is parent the arm chains and the leg change to the torso here.
So what I'll do is I'll select the upper arm bone here shift select this spine to and let's press control
P and make the spine bone a parent of the arm bone and keep offset keep the position between the two
there.
Let me get rid of this rotate gizmo here and I'll also go back to Global.
Yeah.
We're at medium point here and that's fine.
You can also see this relationship line that's been created between the arm bone and the spine and that's
just to let us know that there's a parent child relationship there.
Let's select this bone now and then this one and then let's press control P and keep offset and down
here let's do the same thing.
I'll select this shift select this bone the root bone press control P and keep offset in here and the
root and control P and there we go.
So now we've got all of those parents to each other which means if we tap back into object mode and
then go to post mode let's say we select this spine bone and we rotate this around you can see the arms
now come along with that spine bone and that's that's what we want to remove the rotation from this
bone here I can press old R and that will clear the rotation same thing down here if I select this and
move this around you can see everything now is a child of this root bone all right.
Once again Walt.
Ah there we go.
OK so now we've got the rig generally set up now.
These are all the deformed bones.
There's gonna be more bones that will create to control things like the foot roll controls and the control
objects and things like that.
But for now this is what will actually be deforming the character when it's being animated.
So what let's do is let's go ahead and bind the mesh to the armature so that when we move the bones
here impose mode it will actually move the character as well.
I'll go back to solid mode here and we don't really need to see the wire frame anymore I'm going to
go back to object mode select the character and turn off wireframe here and I'll turn off all edges
as well.
So what we're going to do is parent the character to the rig to the armature in much the same way that
we just parenthood one bone to another.
But when we do this it's going to create a modifier over here.
So I'm going to open the modifiers panel so you can see what happens when we do this parenting.
So the first thing I will do is select the character and then I will shift select the rig.
Now what let's do is press control P and we get a new menu now because it's seeing that one of the things
we have selected is an armature and we've got these choices here we can choose to parent with armature
to form with empty groups with envelope weights and with automatic weights and what we're gonna do is
use blenders automatic weights and with this blender we'll take a look at the vertices around each of
the bones and try and set the influence for each of the vertices based on its position to the bone how
near or how far it is from any specific bone.
So let's go ahead and try this.
I'm gonna choose automatic weights right there.
And now if we go back to just selecting the character look at what happened over here in the modifiers
panel we have a new armature modifier and this is what is binding the character to a specific object
to the armature itself.
So the modifier is added to the character mesh and the object that it is bound to is the armature.
All right.
So now that we've done this let's give it a test.
Let's choose the armature and then go back over to pose mode choose a bone and let's give this a try.
So with this selected I'm going to change from global to local transformation.
And with this bone selected let's just move this up and down and sure enough our character has been
bound to the armature to the skeleton that we've created so we could maybe take the neck bone here.
Let's choose the neck bone and spend that around like this yeah.
And we could maybe take a leg bone and rotate it up like that.
Now you can see there are some problems.
I don't think we want the hips to turn with the leg right.
So there is some work we're still going to need to do.
It did the best it could and actually it did pretty well.
It's just that it isn't perfect.
I mean select everything with the achy.
And now I'm in a press Ault are to clear the rotation of everything I did.
So what we need to do now is use blenders weight painting tools to go through and fix all the problems
with the bind so that the character will animate and deform in the way that we want him to.
So we'll work on that next.